# Exceptions 
Anything that disturbs the normal operation of the program by changing operational modes of the processor.

1)System Exceptions:-  
Generated by the processor itself internally.Total 15 system exceptiosn are present.

2)Interrupt:-  
Come from externel world.Total 240 interrupts are present.

---

## System Exceptions
1)Out of 15 only 9 are implemented and 6 are reserved for future implementations.  
2)Exception number 16 is the first interrupt request(IRQ1).  
3)Reset,NMI,HardFault,MemManage,Bus Fault,Usage Fault,Reserved SVC Call,PendSV,SysTick,Interrupt this all are system exceptions.

---

1)NMI(Non Maskable Interrupt) is signalled by peripheral and triggered by software.Maskable means that can be ignored by the processor.
NMI's are having highest priority and can't be disabled.This needs emergency attention like harware failures.  
2)HardFault is an exception that occurs because of an error during exception processing.Like T bit is 0.  
3)Interrupts must be enabled in both NVIC and in the generating the interrupt.If exception happens this are ready to handle it otherwise 
hardfault occurs.  
4)MemManage exceptions triggered when processor tries to access memory region that is marked as protected.  
5)Usage Fault happens whenever there is undefined instructions,illegal unaligned access ,invalid state.  
6)SVC Call Supervisor Call used by unprivileged devices to access OS kernel function and device drivers.It requests for service 
from kernel so it uses SVC with service number.  
7)PendSV used for context switching when no other exception is active.

---

## System Exception control Register
1)All the registers which control the functionality of processor.It contains registers for NVIC,FPU,MPU,etc.  
2)SCB(System Control Block) provides system implementation information and system control.Which includes fault handlers enabler,pending status of faults
control sleep and sleep wakeup.  
3)System handler priority register useful in handling priorities in system exceptions.  
4)SHCSR(System Handler Control and State Register) enables system handler to enable pending status of BusFault,MemManage fault.

---

## NVIC
1)One of the peripheral of the cortex processor.It is used to configure 240 interrupts.  
2)It enable,disable or pend various interrupts and read status of active interrupts.  
3)Configure priority and priority grouping of various interrupts.It's called nested because it supports pre-empting 
a lower priority interrupt handler when higher priority interrupt arrives.  
4)This interrupts are triggered by various on-chip peripherals.This are highly vendor specific.

---

## Important Registers
ISER=Interrupt Set Enable Register.This are 8 registers.This are only used for enabling interrupts.It can't disable interrupts.  
ICER=Interrupt Clear Enable Register.Used to disable interrupts.  
ISPR=Interrupt Set Pending Register.It basically pend the register.  
ICPR=Interrupt Clear Pending Register.It removes pending state.  
IABR=Interrupt Active Bit Register.It tells whether interrupt is being serviced by processor or not.
